learning for the most part involves
suffering and it's really strange for me
to hear particularly within the vegan
intellectual ghetto so much talk about
expertise about research and about
activism that seems to come from an
overly abstract and fetishized idea of
what any of those words would mean in
practice I'm gonna keep the real with
you I am not now an expert in the
israel-palestine conflict and I never
plan to become an expert in the
israel-palestine conflict I think I have
read four books on that topic in my life
there is only one that I really remember
clearly that's sort of memorable and
stuck with me in that way
I read numerous articles about it in my
university education and newspapers and
what have you and yet I would claim
absolutely zero expertise on the topic
if I shift my camera over here right now
I've probably got about 40 books in the
room with me this year what am i
learning about what am i gaining
expertise in the politics of Fiji the
politics of Tonga those are two small
islands in the South Pacific that I
never imagined I'd be studying northern
Japan the Japanese border with Russia
three-way conflicts between China Russia
and Japan historically quite a few
different episodes of Chinese communism
Russian communism Japanese politics
Japanese economics and at the end of
this year I would still not claim
expertise in any of those things
hmm I could have when I was a young man
become passionate about the Israeli
Palestine conflict I could have decided
to devote my life to research or
activism on the Palestine Israel
conflict
and I say or because research is not the
same things activism but let's take it
down a few notches instead of devoting
your life to a cause just think about
what it would mean to devote 5 years to
a cause to devote 5 years to studying
the israel-palestine conflict or any of
the strange subjects I've just mentioned
what would it be like to devote just one
year of your life to activism in an area
I don't think that's that hard to
imagine like I don't think it's a huge
leap of intuition even for someone who
has no particular background no
particular life experience to think what
that's like if you know what it's like
to work at Starbucks for one year it's
not that hard to imagine what it would
really be like how it would transform
you and how much kind of suffering you
would go through if you devoted one year
of your life to any of these things
recent video from a privileged vegan as
she calls herself where she's standing
there with a friend or colleague
lecturing us on what vegans ought to
think and do about the israel-palestine
conflict
um again among the things that seem so
strange to me are the way she speaks of
activism that you ought to know about
this issue and then become an activist
about it like herself the the word
activist seems to have become completely
meaningless in this context do you
really think that making statements on
Twitter is activism like do you think
making angry YouTube comments to people
whom you disagree with is activism and
again reciprocal that what is expertise
what is research as I say I had every
opportunity to to become an expert on
Middle Eastern politics in general on
politics of the Muslim world I mentioned
I should another YouTube video recently
I had one really excellent professor in
that field way back during my first
university Plomin political science
it would have been much easier for me to
develop that area of expertise than for
me to try to develop expertise related
to Cambodia Laos Southeast Asia and so
on
human knowledge is something like a
glass of water being poured out on a
table top the only sense of its shape
comes from an awareness of its edges of
its limits we cannot know all the things
we don't know and we can't even really
keep track of all the things we do know
but we can be aware of our limits we can
be aware of the edges of our own
knowledge and accomplishments and I
don't even mean that we should be humble
I really don't in terms of cultures I
kind of dig the American ego trip I dig
the blustering self-confidence
that's so stereotypical of people born
and raised the United States I much
prefer to be around Americans with that
attitude than to be around British
people who seem to be simultaneously so
fragile and so demanding if your
approval and to have all these different
layers of phony evasions and false
humility about things I dig it it's cool
you know um but as I've said before here
on YouTube honesty is the only currency
we've got and when you're talking about
a subject that's marginal to your life's
interest in your life work it's even
more important to be honest about what
you know what you don't know the limits
of your knowledge what motivated you why
and how you know what you know so like
for me I lost like 10 years of my life
studying tera vaada Buddhism so in many
of my videos I just throw it away that
quickly I just say look for about 10
years I was a scholar of this stuff and
if you want to know more you can watch
other videos on this channel you can
read articles have published there's all
kinds of informal writing them
underneath it there's a lot of evidence
about that so I don't need to go into it
people are interested they can find it
more
but if I were to make a youtube video
about the history of Haiti island of
Haiti in the Caribbean I would have to
begin that video by saying really at
some length why I read a bunch of books
about the history of Haiti now it's
strange I mean I don't know the research
I did on Haiti it's not even 1% of the
research I did in my life but it really
did affect me deeply it stayed with me
for the rest of my life it's shaped and
reshaped the way I viewed other other
areas of politics other areas of history
other areas of knowledge to be blunt and
simple it influenced me in case you
don't know the history of Haiti does
involve slavery racism revolution
counter-revolution there's a lot to it
there's a lot to be learned from it
Napoleon Bonaparte who still celebrated
as a hero in France in fact devised the
first gas chambers in history of the
world where he gassed slaves to death as
he was trying to reimpose slavery in the
name of a revolution that had ended
slavery and preached liberty and
equality for all if you know anything
about me from the other videos on this
channel and so on you'll know these
types of terrible ironies and saddening
contradictions of the political history
of the world um there are a lot of
reasons why this would resonate with me
but still I am not now an expert on
Haiti and I never will be and I'm also
not an activist on Haiti and I never
will be and even if I made a hundred
declarations on YouTube Twitter email or
Facebook about the politics of Haiti
reflecting my interests are concerned it
would neither make me an expert nor an
activist
so I mean
I think it's cool to be honest about
what you know to be honest about your
ignorance to be honest about what you
care about I think it's totally cool to
come here on YouTube and say whether
it's in reference to the
israel-palestine conflict or Haiti or
anything else
look this is something I only got
interested in recently this is why I
care about it I don't really know that
much about it I read this one book about
it maybe you've read two books maybe you
haven't read any books maybe you just
watched some YouTube videos about it
you're just at that stage where you
you're just starting to get interested
and and wonder what you can do more
maybe if you're gonna talk about
activism you should just say you know
I'm interested in doing something I'm
interested in making difference I'm
trying to learn how I can make a
difference but please do not talk about
yourself in the present tense or the
past tense or as if it's some Universal
character trait as being an activist
who's involved in the israel-palestine
conflict if there is nothing on your CV
that relates to that